I'll conclude this module with the airy object they are we also have some fun new functions to showcase
this all first create a new airy and I'll start Steve ready for his new thing.
I can use Tiberi object to create a new array.
And this is not only new that is is five stalls so you already had this available before.
Now if I add five here and then I lock my Airey to the console What do you think we'll see.
We see undefined undefined undefined undefined undefined five times.
So today with S-5 javascript running and all the browsers this every object if we use it like this in
this kind of constructor like way it will actually give us an array of length 5 and it will of course
fill it with five undefined values that might be the behavior you want but sometimes you just wanted
to create a new array which actually has Well this element in it.
This five with iOS 6 we therefore have the Airey off method.
If I clear this and I now hit run what do you expect to happen now.
Now we get an array with 5 inside of it and of course I can add more items here.
And if I had run we see all those items in an array.
So that's just another method to create a new array with a given list of items and notes of course and
not passing an array here.
I'm just passing a list of items.
So that is certainly a useful nice thing.
Now I'll go back to the old school tree which is a bit shorter here where I'll just add some numbers
to an array.
And now let's say I wanted to create an ewery based on that array here.
So I want to create my new array year and I wanted to take the old array but change it in some way.
We get this cool new airy from method.
Now array from allows me to specify from which array I want to create in you once so array here for
example this one here.
And then I can add a function as a second argument to tell how we want to change each value for this
new aere.
So we're taking this old array as the basis.
But then we want to change it in our Nury.
Now here I'll use an arrow function or a federal function whatever you want to call it.
I pass a value into it and then I multiplied with two.
That's simply a step function.
This array from function will execute on each element here and once it is done with all the elements
it will give us back a new array and store it in this new Airey variable.
So therefore if I now print new array here and that just sort of actually it's of course important to
make this an uppercase A We need the airy object you bolt in every object here not our very well.
So with that prepared What do you think you'll see if I now run
while we get this new array which is the old airy but with all numbers being doubled.
Of course if I still print in old Airey and run again we see that the old era here didn't get changed
.
We only used it as the base for this new array.
And then we adjusted the values appropriately forward and you array here all get rid of this for now
.
And I want to show you a number of cool new method.
We also have the full method and this is applied directly on an array.
So I take my array which I created up here this variable and I'll use the full method on it.
Now hearable pass 100.
And what do you think might now happen and what will you see if I how to run while we get the array
.
Everything has been filled up with 100s.
So thought does exactly what we could think that it does telling by the name it takes the old array
and each value in this array is replaced with the value we specify here between the parentheses.
So therefore we full this array with 100.
In this case sometimes you don't want to fold the entire array but only well let's say we want to replace
the second element with 100.
Well of course there would be a quick array by simply accessing it from the index.
But if we want to use the fold method we could do this by passing some optional arguments that could
pass the START argument which of course is the next thing we want to start.
Let's say one and the end argument here all use two.
So basically telling this method here that I want to start at next one and I want to end that X too
but in X two won't be included.
So only this position here will be filled with 100.
Therefore if I now run get 10 160 and so the second element has been replaced with 100.
And of course I could have also started at the first element replaced the first two elements here.
So that's a full and how we can control it to either the complete Airey or only certain parts of it
.
There's another method I want to share with you on my array here.
So on the array created here I also have the find method of sailable and this method expect a function
as an input and I'll use that arrow function here again.
But of course you could still write an old for oldskool function like this.
And just calling it old school.
Not really because we wouldn't use it anymore just to differentiate between you arrow and the other
functions.
So are we using a fat function.
And this gets Belizean input that you will of course be the individual elements for which is find function
will appear.
And then the year I specified the criterium on which I want to find something for example I could say
that I want to find everything where a value is greater equal twelth.
And now just to make sure what actually happens here.
Remember that you can imagine are it true in Stape and in front of that.
And then all I do is simply return if value is greater or equal to 12.
So either true or false.
And again this function here will be executed for each element in this array automatically by find.
So what do you think again that would run I get 12.
Now this might be surprising because 16 us also bigger than that.
Right.
But it actually will stop after the first match so it won't give us back the array of resources found
but only the first element of that imaginary Yairi you could say.
So it only will give us back the very first element we're in this condition here hits and therefore
it's mostly important if you're not searching for Drage are equal then although that really is what
you want you want to get the for ultimate where this is true.
But imagine you have an array full of objects and you're you would have a criterion or a condition where
you check for object has a certain value for a specific property.
Then you could find exactly that object in your array.
And that would be a use case where it absolutely makes sense to only get one.
So I want to show you such an example next.
Now that's actually an example from the end the end the most laudable upper network but it's really
good as you can see we get our array inventory here and we got free objects which all have a name and
a quantity and then we get this fine Cherrie's function Novin every function but a classic traditional
function.
We get fruit as an input and we check if this fruit has a name.
He quoted.
And then we log inventory which is our aere find and we pass a reference we find charites method here
.
So this will be the method executed on each item and each item will then be passed to this method as
fruit here.
So if I had run now what do you think I get I get these Cherie's object.
And here it absolutely makes sense to be a good one because we only wanted to find one since we have
unique identifiers year.
So find something which can be helpful if you want to use some advanced queries like the one here where
you want to look into an object instead of having a look at some generic condition.